[ Music ]
>> Jonathan Mooney: So my
name is Jonathan Mooney,
and I'm originally from Los Angeles, California.
And you know I had a very tumultuous
and painful school experience
as somebody who learned differently.
I was the kid who spent most of the day
hiding out in the hallway with the janitor.
I was the kid who grew up on a first name basis
with Shirley the receptionist
in the principal's office.
You know I was the kid who
spent most of the day hiding
in the bathroom to escape reading out loud.
I didn't learn to read until I was 12.
Was diagnosed with dyslexia and ADD or attention
deficit disorder when I was in fourth grade.
And I actually dropped out of
school for two years in sixth grade.
And that year I had a plan for suicide.
So I had a lot of low expectations
that surrounded me in my life.
I was told that I would flip
burgers for a living.
I was told that I would be
a high school dropout.
I'd be incarcerated.
And eventually I ended up kind of beating those
odds and going to college and being a writer
and being an advocate for people with
cognitive and physical differences.
So while school started as a difficult
experience, it's something that I managed
to change and reimagine in my own life.
And I have to say, coming to an understanding
of myself as person with a learning difference
or disability what was an important moment.
Before I was diagnosed, I really thought
of myself as the stupid, crazy, lazy kid.
Those were messages I was getting from
teachers, from peers, from my own father.
And being able to understand myself differently,
know that the reason I struggled with reading
and writing wasn't because I was dumb
but because my brain was different.
That was important.
Or understanding the reason that I
had a hard time sitting still wasn't
because I was you know, bad or trying to be
disruptive, but because my brain was different.
That was an important moment for me.
That moment happened around
fourth and fifth grade.
It happened because of a
wonderful teacher in my life.
I'll never forget him.
His name was Mr. Rosenbaum.
He invited me and my mom into his office
one day, and he said hey Jonathan,
you remind me a lot of my daughter.
And my daughter went off to
college, and my daughter is dyslexic.
And I told that story because it's
really important that I understood
that having a learning difference
isn't anything to be ashamed of.
That dyslexia and ADD aren't deficiencies but
differences in the truest sense of the word.
And Mr. Rosenbaum had that belief.
And I encourage others when they think about
themselves or when they engage with young people
with differences to celebrate these difference
as opposed to make folks feel ashamed of them.
[ Music ]